Chunk 1:
All right. OK, I'll put this back on. You're talking about Rose and Joe, Grandma and Joe. Attitudes to one another. And there was a jealousy because of this, unfortunately. I think there was discussion going on about Solly not having a home. Well, that started because you were talking about your family being poor, but after Joe. No, this is Ada's right. Well, they were poor. But you know why they were poor? Because we didn't have any money. I don't mean that. I don't mean that.

Chunk 2:
But you know, Rose worked in the earlier days, in the earlier days, she worked for Ginsburg and Levy in the antique field. She was a bookkeeper. Yeah, but she was very highly reputed because she was a crackerjack. What does that mean? What does a crackerjack mean? She was a very good bookkeeper. She was fast and accurate. Very fast and very accurate. Then, just finishing with my father,

Chunk 3:
Now he tried very hard to bring that common community that was violent to a less violent pattern because I told you in the IS they would throw the equipment out the window. And Father Divine was a great representative of peace in that area.

Chunk 4:
started another family. Oh really? So while he was married Oh he didn't get divorced? No, he was married to Phyllis Oh boy. He suddenly, I mean nobody knew in the beginning but his And Raj was very friendly with Phyllis Oh yeah, and remained so but his you know he became less reliable he didn't show up, he came in late Oh no

Chunk 5:
My mother built a stone wall around the back of the museum, my mother and uncle saw, that was part of their makeup. A dress, fix a dress, hammer a nail, fix a picture. I'm doing his pants now, I have to laugh every time I do that, I think of my mother, she'd laugh, I'd have to do his pants. But Rose was very handy and very capable mathematically. And my dad was a computer, he was a shop, I never took after him mathematically.

Chunk 6:
lived with us. At that time, most Jewish families seemed to have had someone living with them. Now for the reason of having come from a foreign country or whatever, I really don't know. I do know that Mr. Stern had lost his parents. He had a brother who lived in Bayside, Long Island. Whether he was a friend of my father's, I don't really know how it came about. But

Chunk 7:
to shul every Saturday with mother. We maintained a Jewish Orthodox home, which was the upbringing that I had. Not to say that the others didn't have it too, but they were all married already when I was a child. I was very young when my sister Rose got married. I was extremely young when my brother got married and my other sisters, so that I was really the only child at home, growing up among older people.

Chunk 8:
set up at that time the curriculum for various Hebrew schools throughout the borough. However, that was not a sufficient challenge for me, and I did not feel too comfortable being among all of these men who were rabbis, some of whom, I must confess, made passes, one of whom was very well known. I will mention the name, but you don't have to.

Chunk 9:
and worked very hard, but they were Sabbath observant, just as Lester Udell was Sabbath observant. I started working for that company a very short time. Four months later, I became engaged in May to the nephew, Bernard Epstein. So you only dated for four months? That's all. Wow. And the first date was the night of New Year's Eve,

Chunk 10:
Because we were married, no, no, no, wrong. We were married June 41, this is December 7, 1941, right. A week later, my husband and I were called to the local draft board. And we were amazed that I was called on this card. It distinctly said, bring your wife. And when we were there, we were interrogated.

Chunk 11:
said, and threatened with her life, she had been followed. And she was robbed. During shiver, she told that she broke down. Not only did she not listen to my dad, but she lied to him. And she was inconsolable. I'll never forget that. It was shortly after that she got her first coronary. That was her first. I only bring that back because now when we're talking about Bernice going into the army, you see she was already a lady who had had a coronary.

